About
-----

Last update: 2020-07-??

This document briefly explains how to use one-* commands.
Detailed options are not explained here. Run the command to see options.

Compilation flow for running with onert;
1) one-import will import model files generated from famous frameworks
2) one-optimize will optimize models. This step is optional.
3) one-quantize will quantize models. This step is also optional.
4) one-pack will pack to nnpkg so that we can run the model with our onert
   runtime

Compilation flow for NPU
1) one-import will import model files generated from famous frameworks
2) one-optimize will optimize models. This step is optional.
3) one-quantize will quantize models. Depending on the NPUs.
4) one-codegen will compile to binary codes.


one-import
-----------

one-import will invokes one-import-* commands.

Syntax: one-import [framework] [options]

Currently supported frameworks are 'tf', 'tflite' for TensorFlow and TensorFlow
lite.

one-import-bcq
-------------

This will convert Tensorflow model file (.pb) to our circle model file with applying BCQ.
To execute this command, original Tensorflow model file must include BCQ information.

This command invokes following scripts internally.
- preserve_bcq_info : Prevent BCQ information vanishing problem
- generate_bcq_info : Designate BCQ information nodes as model output automatically
- tf2tfliteV2 : Convert Tensorflow model to tflite model
- tflite2circle : Convert Tensorflow Lite model to circle model
When this command is finished, BCQ information nodes will be removed if BCQ information
was valid and applying BCQ is done correctly without any errors.

As tf2tfliteV2.py runs TensorFlow lite converter, you need to have TensorFlow
installed in your system. We recommand to use 2.3.0rc0 for now.

We provide python virtual environment and one-import-bcq will enter and leave
this environment so that you don't need to explictly 'activate' virtual
environment.


one-import-tf
-------------

This will convert TensorFlow model (.pb) file to our circle model. You can also
directly call this command. one-import-tf invokes tf2tfliteV2.py script that
will internally use TensorFlow lite converter and then invoke tflite2circle
converter to convert tflite model to circle model. 

As tf2tfliteV2.py runs TensorFlow lite converter, you need to have TensorFlow
installed in your system. We recommand to use 2.3.0rc0 for now.

We provide python virtual environment and one-import-tf will enter and leave
this environment so that you don't need to explictly 'activate' virtual
environment.


one-import-tflite
-----------------

You can use one-import-tflite to convert TensorFlow lite model (.tflite) file to
our circle model. Internally this will invoke tflite2circle.


one-optimize
------------

one-optimize provides network or operator transformation shown below.

Current transformation options are
- fuse_bcq: This enables Binary-Coded-bases Quantized DNNs
   - read https://arxiv.org/abs/2005.09904 for detailed information
- fuse_instnorm: This will convert instance normalization related operators to
  one InstanceNormalization operator that our onert provides for faster
  execution.
- resolve_customop_add: This will convert Custom(Add) to normal Add operator
- resolve_customop_batchmatmul: This will convert Custom(BatchMatMul) to
  normal BatchMatMul operator
- resolve_customop_matmul: This will convert Custom(MatMul) to normal MatMul
  operator


one-quantize
------------

one-quantize will quantize float32 model to uint8 so that the model can benefit
for speed that our onert runtime and NPU provides. For convolution type
operators we currently support layer-wise quantization. Later we will support
int16 and channel-wise quantization.

Internally this calls circle-quantizer and record-minmax tools.


one-pack
--------

one-pack will generate a package from circle model to nnpackage for our onert
runtime.

Output is a folder with the model(s) and meta information.

ex) if you have a model named '20200719.circle' and want to pack to 'testnnpack'

$ one-pack -i 20200709.circle -o testnnpack

$ tree testnnpack
testnnpack
└── 20200709
    ├── 20200709.circle
    └── metadata
        └── MANIFEST


one-codegen
-----------

one-codegen, like one-import will invoke backend code generation commands.
As of now, our ONE repo does not provide any code generation commands yet.

Syntax: one-codegen [target-backend] [options]

This will invoke [target-backend]-compile command if available.
